- (GRUNTS)
- (KNIVES CLATTER)
Tell me again how you
don't need a Guardian.
(GROANS)
- Flynn. that wound is bad!
- Excalibur.
Lamia got the crown and
she had control over Excalibur.
- Let me treat the bleeding.
- You can't treat it.
It's a magical
wound. I need. um...
Wait! We got to
go find Cassandra.
No! She's the one
who let them in! Ugh!
Well. my lack of faith
in humanity is restored.
(GAGS)
Yeah. that's better.
That helps with pain.
- The bleeding stopped!
- Slowed. Not stopped.
Bathsheba's oil of healing.
If it had been an ordinary
wound it would've stopped it.
but it's a magical wound
so it's going to slow it long
enough so that we can find Charlene.
I passed her in the shelves.
She said something about
meeting her deep in the Library.
Something about
the Corridor of Doors?
Let's go. Let's go!
Any artifacts which can
move. prep them for transport.
MAN: Yes. ma'am.
Did you really have to do that?
LAMIA: You've seen the power
the Librarians are hiding down here.
How much knowledge is locked away.
far from the people it can help the most.
So. you're telling me
that you're the good guys?
We're going to use the Library's
powers to change the world.
- Let's go.
- Grab this.
EZEKIEL: How
big is this Library?
FLYNN: As big
as we need it to be.
(BELL TOLLING)
Oh. no. That's the
countdown clock.
Flynn. what happens
when the bell stops?
Charlene. no!
MAN: Get out of here!
You mean the Library is cut
off from the outside world?
- Get out! Grab what you can and get out!
- MAN: Come on!
You mean it's like locked doors?
Look around you. girl!
Can anything this big
really just lie underneath
the streets of New York City?
The Library exists in its
own pocket dimension.
anchored to our reality here.
at this single physical place.
And the first Librarian
just cut the anchor chain.
(BELL TOLLING)
- What now?
- Four bells.
I don't know. I've never been
this deep in the Library before.
That's three bells.
- Charlene. She'll know what to do.
- COLONEL BAIRD: She's not coming.
- All right. Judson. he's always here!
- He's not coming!
Two bells! Pick a door!
What the hell?
Judson! Charlene!
Where are we?
EZEKIEL: When are we?
It's day. We time-traveled.
Time travel. Ugh.
Time travel's not all
it's cracked up to be.
Hey. Blood. Mine.
It's crimson. I need
to eat more calcium.
- Whoa.
- Let's not panic.
There's a logical
way to approach
- being trapped in the past.
- Okay.
We find the local king. tell
him about our powerful magic.
invent a steam engine.
and he gives us a duchy.
Eventually. we use our superior
technology to take over the land.
I hate to break it to you. King Jones the
First. but I got cell service. American carrier.
Of course. We didn't travel through
time. we traveled through space.
We came west! It's still night in New York.
but the sun's still up on the West Coast.
GPS coming online.
Latitude would put us exactly in
- Oregon.
See. I still got it.
We gotta get him to a hospital.
Road's this way. Don't
see a hospital though.
He's bleeding real bad.
Well. we better get
a move on. then.
- Hi.
- Howdy.
Your friend does not
look well. You need a ride?
I'm Colonel Eve Baird. Uh. do
you mind if we explain in the car?
No need to talk. I hate to
pry into people's business.
What were you doing out here?
Waiting. I do that.
(ENGINE STARTS)
COLONEL BAIRD: Hang in
there. Flynn. How far to the hospital?
Hospital? Oh. no. no. no. no.
Why would we take him to a
hospital? We're almost here.
Wait. wait. wait. We need a hospital!
He's been stabbed. He's bleeding out.
Hospital won't do him any good.
Wounds caused by
Excalibur don't heal. Magic!
Wait a second. How do
you know about Excalibur?
Please forgive the dust. Hasn't
been used in ages. of course.
And how do you
know about magic? Ah!
I know all about
you. Flynn Carsen.
I don't understand.
What is this place?
- Who are you?
- Who am I?
Jenkins. of course.
As far as this place...
Well.
(SNAPS FINGERS)
You're in the Library.
Aw.
Say. you wouldn't happen to
have a cold beer. would you?
(SNIFFS) Uh. no.
As this is the Library and
not a rodeo or a hobo camp
or wherever it is people
like you gather in crowds.
- Mmm-mmm. Don't! Don't move too much.
- Ow!
What did you stuff it
there with? Duct tape?
- Glue?
- Yes. actually.
- The bleeding won't stop.
- No. it won't stop.
It's a magical wound
from Excalibur.
(SIGHS)
Oh. God! What... (GRUNTS)
Don't touch anything!
I think you broke Africa.
This is my workplace. not Judson's.
And I'm doing very important research.
We're in the Library?
Ah! (GRUNTS)
Judson! Charlene!
- Where's the Library?
- No. no. no. this is the same room.
Hey. I swear this
is the same room.
Yes. of course it is.
The main Library can only ever be anchored
to one specific place in the world.
What if the Librarian needed to gain
access to the Library's knowledge.
but was far from the front door?
This is an interface.
Judson ran the Library while
you were out here in an annex.
Yes. Separate. but connected.
Oh.
Name a book.
something you know is
only in the main Library.
Isaac Newton's Principia
Mathematica. the unedited version.
Section F. row nine. shelf AA2. right
behind the little shifty-looking fellow.
(READING) "The mathematical
principles of natural philosophy
"as derived by the wondrous
thinking machines of Atlantis"?
Like I said. the
unedited version.
I am afraid.
as Judson has cut the connection
of the Library to the physical world.
this room is all we have.
Access to information. but no
way in or out of the main Library.
Ah. typical Judson. so rash.
Hey. watch your tone when
you speak about Judson.
Judson and I never
agreed on anything.
I mean. I realize that the
Library is best used for research.
Not for gallivanting about. fighting
monsters. seducing princesses.
- (LAUGHS)
- Oh. I'm guessing with that attitude.
that's why you're probably
stuck out here in the Annex. huh?
Not at the home office.
Very happy here. It's quiet.
I can focus on my
work. not bothered by
the greatest collection
of magic in the world.
I should have seen it coming.
Cassandra. they
had leverage on her.
I should've seen it. I
should have seen all of it.
Why didn't Judson warn me?
Maybe Judson trusted you
to figure it out on your own.
How could I not see that
they were killing Librarians?
People are dead because
I just wasn't good enough.
You're opening your wound.
It doesn't matter!
Magical wound.
It won't ever heal.
I'm going to die.
Tell 'em.
- (SIGHS)
- What? Tell me what?
I can pump him full of fluids.
but if he keeps bleeding...
Twenty-four hours.
He's dead in 24 hours.
Yeah. Isn't he supposed
to be in charge?
Yeah. this is not good.
DULAQUE: Cassandra!
So glad you managed to avoid the
insane suicide plan of the Librarians.
Do you know if
the others got out?
Ezekiel and Stone?
Well. I dearly hope so.
You see the lengths the Librarians will go
to to hide the gift of magic from the world?
Destroy anything. anyone.
to keep their secrets.
If you can cure me...
When the key is
joined to the lock
and magic is
returned to the world.
we can absolutely cure you.
You have to share it.
You have to help all of the
people that science can't save.
Cassandra. that's
why you're here.
To help us bring
magic back to the world
and help those who cannot
be helped by other means.
We're going to change the world.
Now. you'd best
get some rest. Hmm?
Why'd you stop me?
New rug.
And even with Excalibur. there are
bound to be impediments accessing the lock.
Having a Librarian. even half
a Librarian. may prove useful.
But mostly the rug.
I need Flynn to
pull it together.
I'm too new to this world.
Well. then you need to
go and pull him together.
You're his Guardian.
That means more than
merely keeping him alive.
It means keeping him in one
piece. both mentally and physically.
Didn't do a great job of that.
So he got stabbed.
Librarians get stabbed and shot
and bitten and cursed all the time.
He's gonna die. Soon.
We're all gonna die soon
if you don't get in there.
Now. look. Guardian. if he fell into a river.
you would reach in and pull him out. Yes?
Before he could drown.
Judson was everything to Flynn.
As was Charlene who. quite
frankly. I always liked better.
To lose them both?
Right now. he is drowning.
Right now.
Go save him.
Flynn?
(READING) "Higher Dimensional
Quantum Translocation Theory"
by Albert Einstein.
Original edition. I think...
I think I figured out a
way back to the Library.
Is that really where
we should be going?
Yeah. we've got tools there.
We've got artifacts there.
We've got resources that we're gonna need if
we're gonna fight the Serpent Brotherhood.
In the few days we've known each
other. I haven't seen you use any tools
or magical
equipment or artifacts.
Just your brain.
That's why Judson
chose you. right?
Your brain is a weapon
and a tool and a library.
all wrapped up into one.
Judson chose you because. in
the end. you don't need anything.
Yeah. but Charlene could
still be alive. Judson could still...
The right thing to do
is to find the Library.
If that were the right
thing to do. Flynn Carsen.
you'd be doing it.
Not reading about it.
No. No. This is
your way of hiding.
I bet... I bet that's what
you were like before all this.
You hid in books.
That's the life from which Judson
pulled you. That's what you were.
Judson and Charlene.
they made you what you are.
Well. I'm gonna
be dead tomorrow.
So. how would they want
you to spend your last day?
They'd want me to save
the world one more time.
So. tell me. Librarian.
how are you gonna do that?
You
are...
Key!
(CHUCKLING)
I'm henge and key.
She said "key." She
called Excalibur a key.
She didn't say "sword."
she didn't say "weapon."
She said "key."
and think about it.
You're the Serpent Brotherhood. you
wanna bring magic back into the world.
How are you gonna do
that with just one sword?
COLONEL BAIRD:
Excalibur is pretty powerful.
STONE: But it's
still just a sword.
I mean. Excalibur against a tank?
An F-15. I'm betting on the military.
That's right. It's
not an end goal.
It's a key. And
what does a key do?
- Jones!
- It goes in a lock.
That's right. and we all
remember the legend.
Excalibur was locked in once
before. it had to be pulled free.
You must be feeling better.
You're not making any sense!
The stone.
The legend is Arthur pulled
Excalibur from the stone.
After it had been charged with
magic. And where is that stone. Stone?
If Arthur was Roman. it'd be at the
biggest Empire settlement in Britain.
Londinium. Modern London.
Ha!
Look. there's a big ley line
running right underneath.
Come on! Let's
go get that stone.
Whoa. Us. too?
Well. they've got the most
powerful weapon in the world.
Judson's gone. Charlene's gone. The
Library's gone. I'm bleeding to death.
So. yeah. working alone doesn't
seem like the best idea right now.
Good. you're leaving. I
can get back to my work.
Jenkins. book us tickets to
London. I'd do it myself. but I'm dying.
Hey. Excuse me.
You didn't turn off the
glowy globe. You got...
(SIGHS)
Hope it's on a timer.
FLYNN: There's a magical
stone out there somewhere.
I've got about 12
hours before I'm dead.
and the end of the world
will probably come before that.
- Full day ahead.
- How do we find the stone?
What we need is a compass.
The stone that Excalibur was
pulled from is almost pure magic.
It should attract any
other magic item in the city.
Let's just take another magic artifact.
rig it into the compass. Piece of cake.
It is a piece of cake 'cause
I know just the artifact.
GUIDE: Move this way. please.
ladies and gentlemen. This way.
Now the Imperial State
Crown was made in 1937...
- The Crown Jewels.
- We are not...
FLYNN: Shh.
We are not stealing the Crown
Jewels of the British monarchy.
Of course not.
We're stealing that one.
The Star of Marrakech.
John Dee used it to save
the life of Elizabeth the First
from magical assassination.
Actually. really funny story...
So. we're not stealing
the Crown Jewels.
We're stealing a priceless artifact
from right next to the Crown Jewels.
Oh. not we.
(MOUTHING)
(WHISPERS) Now I know
why the Library chose you.
Vibration detectors
on the glass.
Got a pressure plate. Can
tell when the weight changes.
It's actually not too difficult.
Please. don't let this be
something too unsavory.
No. not at all.
We just need to
steal a wheelchair.
I can't believe I'm doing this.
Really? All you do is
push people around.
(GASPS) Oh!
- I'm so sorry. That was an accident.
- That's the third time this week.
- Are you okay?
- I keep telling you to slow down.
- Don't yell. please don't yell.
- It's not a race. Not a race.
Sorry.
(ALARM BEEPING)
Seriously? You're gonna put your gum
on a stone worth seven million euros?
(SPEAKING LATIN)
That's pretty...
(ALARM BLARING)
COLONEL BAIRD: Where to?
Follow the gem.
Lost 'em.
We've got about five minutes
before the police show up.
- (STRAINING) The gem can find it in three.
- And then?
We're gonna have to keep them
from putting Excalibur back in the stone.
Why would they want to put
Excalibur back into the stone?
DULAQUE: It would
be like a jump start.
CASSANDRA: Like jump-starting
a car? DULAQUE: Exactly.
Excalibur is one of the few
great items of magic remaining.
It contains unbelievable power.
Power that was siphoned from
the ley lines of magic. centuries ago.
And now all those
ley lines are dormant.
But if we were to
suddenly shock them
by returning Excalibur's
power back to the earth.
it would begin a chain reaction.
The energy would build on itself.
Magic would spread back
out through the ley lines
and magic would
return to the entire world.
This was a river. you
know. The Tyburn.
I remember when
it ran above ground.
Through meadows.
We found the chamber
holding the stone by using sonar.
Decided coming in from
the side was the best bet.
Required drilling. air recycling. but
still better than coming in from the top.
There are magical traps
at the proper entrance.
plus the human security.
Human security?
DULAQUE: You didn't think the location of
the stone was a complete secret. did you?
The royal family's been
hiding it for centuries.
Is that...
That's Buckingham Palace.
Good news. There's a
charity event on tonight.
I bet I can forge
us some invites.
We just robbed
the Tower of London
and now you want us to
break into Buckingham Palace?
It's more fraud than it
is breaking and entering.
Listen to me. can
you make me a duke?
- Sure.
- (SIGHS)
What's next? The Vatican? The
Taj Mahal? The White House?
She'll be back. Maybe.
(CROWD CHATTERING)
You okay. cowboy?
My first suit.
I'm rocking it.
Where is Baird? She's not
gonna get in without an invitation.
- Good evening.
- Welcome. Good evening.
And these are your invitations?
Could you wait here?
And please don't try to leave.
You know what I'm thinking?
That your forgeries are crap?
No. I'm thinking I can run faster
than you 'cause you've been stabbed.
FLYNN: All right. here we go.
(CLEARS THROAT)
COLONEL BAIRD: They're with me.
Orders from the director of
counter-terrorism. Stay sharp.
MAN: All right.
gentlemen. Welcome.
The royal family must have
created an access to get to the stone.
Look for a secret passageway.
Something out of the ordinary.
Undercover. Librarian.
Can't hold you up all night.
How about for the
next five minutes?
All right. look for anything out of place.
We've got to find the secret passage.
Well. if we find it. it's
not so secret then. is it?
GUIDE: Profoundly influenced
by the landscape artist.
Robert Bevan. who
originated this style.
Notice the subtle use of the color
purple in the upper right hand corner.
Hey. hi. Pardon me.
Did you imply that Turner was influenced
by Bevan rather than Robert Wilson?
I did not imply. I mean.
Wilson was a bit of an influence.
Surely. you've read Turner's
correspondence with John Ruskin?
The preeminent art
critic of the 1800s.
He was part of an unbroken line of
influence from Wilson through Turner...
- Champagne. sir?
- Hey. How are you?
- I'm well. Thank you. sir.
- Thank you.
Actually. can I get a beer?
Hello. gorgeous.
COLONEL BAIRD: This is nice.
Yes. it is.
We can completely
move around the room
and check for secret passages
without seeming suspicious.
Exactly that.
Do you think Stone
and Ezekiel are...
Not doing what they're
supposed to be doing?
- Probably not.
- (CHUCKLES)
We've dropped them into a
completely ridiculous situation
with absolutely no training.
It's what happened to me.
They don't train the Librarian?
Well. how'd you do
on your first mission?
FLYNN: (LAUGHS) I got completely
distracted. nearly died about nine times.
And would have if it hadn't
been for my Guardian.
For what it's worth.
I'm glad you didn't die.
I found out there's magic
in the world. I owe you that.
We should schedule a dance sometime
when you're not slowly bleeding to death.
Let's save the world first.
- You ever get used to saving the world?
- (CHUCKLES)
I don't even bother to put
it on my to-do list anymore.
Mr. Dulaque. we cannot thank
you enough for your donation.
Ambassador. I've always said.
"If you want to change the world.
"you can't wait around for
other people to do it for you."
We're running out of time.
Get me through that wall.
(GRUNTS)
MAN: Run the wire down here.
Bring in the lights
and the air hoses.
(MEN SHOUTING IN DISTANCE)
The stone of King Arthur.
I want everything in here now!
- Cut through this.
- Right. ma'am.
(SCREAMS)
Right. New plan.
What is this?
It's high Enochian.
It's a mathematical language
based on ancient Greek and Hebrew.
And you can crack it?
Given time.
Take all the time you need.
MAN: The crown. ma'am.
They're running standard
counter-terrorism along the perimeter
and soft threat
assessment on the inside.
which means their
attention's on the VIPs.
And the interior guards are guarding
the doorways and the corridors.
which begs one question.
Why is that guard
standing at the wall?
That coat of arms belonged to
John Sheffield. Duke of Normanby.
Original architect of
Buckingham House.
- Secret door.
I think I might be fading a
little faster than I thought.
Certainly you can't argue that
Joseph Turner simply changed styles.
STONE: I'm not arguing
with you. I'm telling you.
In the plates of Liber Studiorum.
you can see the reflections...
Stone. gotta go.
And so. that's pretty
much exactly why I had to...
Really?
- You. uh. dropped these.
- (GASPS)
Oh. Mary...
- And these.
- (WOMEN GASP)
(PHONE KEYS CLICKING)
MAN VIA COMM: Alarm in
sector four. Please respond.
Buckingham Palace.
I was really expecting
a better secret door.
Oh. write a letter. Let's go.
You ain't looking so hot.
No matter what
happens. get the crown.
If you drop. we'll
leave you and move on.
Wait. Why would you go there?
That's a horrible thing to say.
- (CLICKS)
- (RUMBLING)
(HUMMING)
(CLANKING)
Nice work. little Librarian.
Palaces have dungeons.
right? Find a cell. stick her in it.
- Yes. ma'am.
- What?
You said you were
gonna help people.
We are. We're bringing
magic back to the world.
The whole world. all at once.
Technology ends. magic
returns and we control it.
Come on! Move.
- Return to us. oh ancient world of wonders.
- (ZAPPING)
Return and be ours!
(ZAPPING AND CRACKLING)
STONE: It's the old section.
George the Third's time.
- (CRACKLING)
- Uh-oh.
(ZAPPING)
Welcome back.
The sword's rejoined the stone.
(GROANS) Magic's coming back.
That's a magic wound.
Hello. darling.
An 1811 Château d'Yquem.
Stole one of these once.
Worth about $100.000.
Not a chance it is staying in a wine
cellar. Don't care whose wine cellar it is.
Hang on.
(RUMBLING)
We're not alone.
- They tunneled in from...
- Shh.
(WHISPERS) They tunneled in from the
side. That's much smarter than what we did.
LAMIA: We have worked
long and hard to achieve
what stands before
us today. brothers.
The goal of returning
magic to the world.
it is but moments away.
(ZAPPING)
Okay. we got trained killers.
One of them's got a crown
that's allowing her to control
the most deadly weapon on earth.
Ideas. ideas. ideas. ideas?
CASSANDRA: I have some ideas.
Hey. kid.
Uh. no. thanks. You
already sold us out once.
She had her reasons.
Let's get her out of there.
Wait a minute.
Oh. no. Oh. no. No. no. no. no.
You all ganged up on me and
said. "Let's do this together."
So. let's do this together.
Get her out of there.
Come on.
- Okay. what's the big idea?
- Okay. come here.
Come on.
Okay. so. that's the drill that
they cool with ice-water pipes.
That's the air recycler.
And then the electrical wires
are in the generator and then...
I got you. Metal pipes. Very
good plan. Distraction. then action.
This is gonna work. But
it's gonna take all of us.
Stone. your knowledge
of mechanics.
You need to re-route that ice water
coolant into the warm air recycler.
That's gonna give us our cover.
(MACHINE WHIRS)
(HISSING)
- LAMIA: Librarians. Find them.
- Yes. ma'am. Come on. come on!
Ezekiel. you're hacking.
You gotta rewire
that generator panel
and give me alternating current.
very strong. when I yell for it
at the frequency that
Cassandra gives you.
Six-Seven-One-Four.
Eve. you gotta keep them
distracted while I get to Lamia.
(GRUNTING)
I hear you. Librarian.
Give me the crown. Stop this.
Stop this?
(GRUNTING)
Ow!
MAN: Hey. what are you
doing? STONE: Watch out!
Magic is returning to the world.
It's flowing out
through the ley lines.
creeping back into
every corner of this planet.
Magic you control is
power I can't let you have.
(GRUNTING)
- (GROANING)
- (LAMIA CHUCKLING)
And how are you going to stop us?
Hmm? With your little knock-off Librarians?
(GRUNTING)
One doomed by her
gift. one who fled his gift.
one who abuses it.
Or your little soldier girl?
No. I'm the Librarian.
Librarians win with knowledge.
- Librarians win with science.
- (SIGHS)
Librarians win with
electromagnets!
(CRACKLING)
Cal. come!
(YELLS)
(EXCALIBUR WHIMPERING)
What's happening?
Most of the magic's
gone back into the earth.
He's dying.
I think we both are.
(MOANS)
Listen. the power that's
left is almost all raw magic.
It can help you.
It can save you.
- Flynn.
- It's okay.
Judson's gone. Charlene's gone.
Excalibur's dying.
It's time.
Flynn...
Just touch it to your head.
(SOBS)
(GASPING)
(SOBBING) Oh. God!
(BABBLES)
(GRUNTS)
(GASPS)
No. No. it was
supposed to be for you.
You already have saved me.
(WHIMPERING)
(EXCALIBUR WHIMPERING)
It's okay. It's
okay. old friend.
Once again. magic is defeated by
wisdom. proving that there is nothing.
there is no situation. that
can't be solved by thinking.
Get your hands up!
- So...
- I'm thinking.
Colonel... Colonel Baird?
Hawkins?
No. no.
- Sorry to interrupt your thinking.
- No. no. that's okay. Go ahead.
Gentlemen. funny story.
Your airline tickets.
That's mighty generous of you.
JENKINS: Ah. well. not really.
All the miles a Librarian
racks up every year.
you could trade those in for a seat on a
flight to the secret moon colony. (CHUCKLES)
Oh. you don't
know... Well. uh...
Huh.
STONE: So. that's it?
For you. yup.
But we have transferred
some rather generous...
- Not too generous.
- Stipends into your accounts
and arranged for
your travel home.
Thank you very much.
I don't think it's fair or safe to
involve you in this life any longer.
A life that would have been ours
had luck broken just a little differently.
Mmm. Maybe not.
- So. back to our lives.
- Yup.
Knowing that magic is real.
- Knowing the world...
- CASSANDRA: is so big.
The world is so big. I mean.
what if we can't just move on?
- Well. Jenkins.
- Yes.
You've also all signed
non-disclosure forms
so as not to tell anyone of
the events which occurred.
the existence of the
Library and the Librarian.
of magic and secret
conspiracies. and well. anything.
Or else?
Please. tell people about the
magic Library and Excalibur
and how you broke into Buckingham
Palace because King Arthur is really Roman.
I'll come visit you. make sure
the straitjacket's not too tight.
Okay.
What about temporal resonance?
- If we could get a crystal skull and...
- Sir. sir. I've...
I've tried everything.
The card catalog is still
anchored to this reality.
It can still access the records of
the Library. books. manuscripts.
but the Library itself and all of its
artifacts are cut loose from this world.
The Library is adrift in time and
space. The Library. sir. is lost.
(KNOCKS TWICE)
- Hello. Flynn.
- (LAUGHS)
Judson.
- Is the Library...
- Intact?
Certainly.
And Charlene?
She's with the Library.
She's tougher than
she looks. you know.
- And you?
- I'm. uh...
My time is done.
You're ready to move on.
No. You're ready.
You know. Judson. I never. um...
I never had a father.
And I never had a son.
Well. now we're both liars.
I'm gonna find the Library.
I'm the Librarian.
Nothing's impossible.
The Serpent Brotherhood failed.
but they released an enormous
amount of magic into the world.
Things are going to
get a little mad out there.
You're in charge now
and you're not going to have
time to search for the Library.
No. not if I try to do it alone.
Flynn. I'll always be...
COLONEL BAIRD: Flynn?
I'm the Librarian.
I'm in charge.
Oh. Okay.
So. it's time I started
making up some new rules.
New plan.
Although I suspect it's the
old plan. I'm just figuring it out.
Open your envelopes.
Our airline tickets?
- Go ahead.
- I left mine back at...
Look again.
Just as I suspected. We
have a lot of work to do.
I think that this will be a
perfect base of operations.
You'll have access to the
archives. if not the artifacts.
and Jenkins here will
teach you how to research
and supervise your
training as Librarians.
What are you talking about?
We do not train Librarians.
Yes. and isn't that stupid?
We take a highly intelligent but
totally unsuspecting individual.
drop them in a world of magic
and then expect them not to die
before they learn
where the toilet is.
That is how it's
always been done.
Now that I'm Librarian. we're
not doing it that way anymore.
Meet the Librarianettes.
No. Meet the
Librarians-in-training.
The L-I-Ts. My little LITs.
- (STAMMERS) But they're not qualified.
- Then we'll qualify them.
I'll still handle the big stuff.
They'll handle all the. you know.
slightly less apocalyptic stuff.
And this will free me up to
find the Library and bring it back.
That is impossible.
Oh. Impossible. pipsy
posh. pipsy posh! Jenkins.
People keep saying that as if we don't
eat the impossible for breakfast every day.
I'm offering you
a life of mystery
and misery.
of loneliness and adventure.
More than that. I'm offering you
an opportunity to make a difference.
And to save the world every
week. twice before Friday.
Are you in?
- Even her?
- Yeah.
She sacrificed her own life
to save Flynn's. I trust her.
I'll give it shot.
If we're helping people. sure.
It will provide an opportunity
to steal new things. I'm in.
Hey. It's your Library now.
At least this little part of it.
And don't worry. I'll be back
to check on you in a few weeks.
Try not to die.
Oh. joy.
We'll need to find
them a Guardian.
Stone's the only one who
can handle himself in a bar fight
and I don't think you'll find too
many magical artifacts in dive bars.
I've already found
their Guardian.
Flynn. no. With Judson
gone. who can you trust?
Well. that's just it.
With Judson gone
and the Library gone.
if anything were to happen
to me. they're the future.
I haven't met anybody that
I trust in the last five years.
I trust you to protect them.
But I thought you
needed a Guardian.
The Library chose
you to be a Guardian.
I think the Library chose
you to be their Guardian.
and Lord knows they're
gonna need protecting.
Way more than I need.
More than I want to be
traveling the world with you.
Librarian and Guardian.
The job's more important
than what we want.
No. don't say that.
That's the old way.
But for now. we have
to work separately.
Come back alive. Librarian.
I... Come back. Yeah. Uh...
Will come back and I'll talk...
Sorry. I'm just...
I'll call you.
No. I'll text you or will you text
me? Or we'll text each other.
It'll be one of those things...
Okay. so. yeah. Okay.
JENKINS: Now. um. I know that
Flynn is technically the Librarian.
- And I technically work for the Library.
- (SIGHS)
Vis-à-vis. etcetera.
etcetera. the Librarian.
- But I don't...
- Really have a choice.
These three will be using
this as a base of operations
and I'll be supervising
their security.
So. make yourself useful
or make yourself gone.
- You're bluffing.
- STONE: Ooh.
She doesn't bluff.
Not so much threats as promises.
Yeah. she can and
will kick your ass.
I suppose there's
always the clippings book.
What's a clippings book?
Oh. child of the
annoying digital age.
It is how we used to gather
information about news stories.
Each page has clippings
from different sources
detailing a bizarre mystery.
Well. we really don't need a
book full of old newspaper articles.
Oh. silly mid-western person.
This clipping's book is
the Library's clippings book.
Every night. there
is a new page.
New information about a new
mystery happening that very day.
Come. let's begin.
(CHUCKLES)
Oh. this is just fascinating.
You will never solve
this one. (CHUCKLES)
(MUSIC PLAYING)